Brian Shaw

Brian Shaw... what can I say about him, that already wasn't said? What argument am I going to show you, that already wasn't made? What kind of stat-line am I going to show you, that already wasn't talked about? There is no new takes on the legacy of Brian Shaw.\f1\lang1045  \f0\lang21 There is nothing new that I could tell you to convince you he is the greatest American strongman to ever show up at the WSM.
Brian's history is known to pretty much every strongman fan. From the Brian that played basketball that got invited to his first strongman comp by a friend and went on to win it without a problem. To the Brian that didn't miss the WSM finals since 2009, to the brian that became one of the 3 strongman in history to win 4 titles. To the Brian Shaw that at the age of 39, when people started to doubt if he still got it went on to get a second place finish in the Finals. 
Shaw is so good, that he is pretty much universally considered as the best American to ever put on a weighlifting belt. For some he is the greates of all time. For some he is an indestritible force, an iron man that never fails and always gets what he considers rightfully his... a title of the strongest man ever.
And thats how the argument goes. First, I tell you he has the most apperances out of any American. Than I will tell you that he never missed the finals outside of his rookie year. After that I will tell about his still on-going streak of 12 consecutive group wins. And finnally I will tell you that he has the most titles out of any american. I will finish by saying that he is the\f1\lang1045  \f0\lang21 G.O.A.T and that Bill Kazmaier argument is irrelevant because Bill never competed with a lineup as stacked as Brian Shaw and that he faced a bunch of undersized man. 
So... that's it? Right? Brian Shaw is the greates American strongman and it's not even a conversation to begin with...

If I follow that script bit-by-bit, we will end up with a generic Brian Shaw G.O.A.T case and nothing more than that. 
And where is the fun in that? What if I tell you than the conversation isn't as one sided as you may think? 
What if I'm going to make Brian Shaw a... human and not an unstopable force of nature from the Californian mountains?
"Hey! I thought you were suppossed to make a case for him as the greates off all time?" Yeah, yeah that what I'm supposed to do am I. 
Don't you worry about it, I will. I just don't wanna make something that you read a houndread times already. 
So, having said that, how will this look? Well, we will hit some of the same notes, see familliar landscapes, and visit a couple of known places.
Now lets get to it and make the case for Brian Shaw, as the greates American WSM competitor in history.

We start in 2008. Actually, to be more precise we start on the 13th of september 2008 in Charleston, West Virginia with WSM group 4. 
This is the debut of Brian Shaw. So how was it? Well not as spectatular as you migh have imagined. He finished 3rd narrowly missing the Finals. 
Brian won 1 event which is not that bad for a first timer. He had 21 points and thats pretty much it. That was the dabut, kind of underwhelming huh... well not really. 
Shaw put up a good performance, after all he faced Laurence Shahlaei, Louis-Philippe Jean and Mariusz Pudzianowski. He wasn't a faivourite to get out of that groupd. 
In fact he wasn't really expected to do this good against that lineup. Regardless of that he smashed Mariusz Pudzianowski in Fingals Fingers by 10 seconds! 
Showing the world that he is a force to look out for. After that suprisingly and from the perspective of time out of character he took last place in the Squat Lift, 
and that was likely what cost him first Finals Apperance. Alright so Brian Shaw had a good start to his career, showed flashed of greatness and ultimatly overachived. I guess that's a good debut. 
Not as good as Bruce Wilhelm's or Magnus ver Magnusons's but still good. So what did Brian do next? Made small improvments to his game and made the finals you may say... no, that's not what Brian did. 
While everybody made small steps from the year prior, Brian took a giant leap over nearly everybody else.

2009 rolled in and Brian came back to the WSM stage. Stronger, faster and with better experience he breazed the group taking 2nd place behind the one and only Zydrunas Savickas. 
Brian won one event and was second in all the other aside of the deadlift in which he came in 3rd. Next came the Finals. He suprised everybody and smashed his first final. 
Finishing third and with one event won. That year Brian made a statement to the world that he is a new contender and he is not going to leave anytime soon. 
2009 was also the year in which the greates rivaly in strongman history started. Brian and Zydrunas met in the groups and since then, they were consistantly standing in each others way to winning,
putting on herculean efforts to beat eachother. Like Bill Russel and Wilt Chamberlain or Joe Frazier versus Muhammad Ali, 
Brian vs Zydrunas became the face of the WSM and a defining factor of how we see them as well as 2010s as a whole. 
Honestly you cannot talk about one without talking about the other at some points. Their rivarly became synonymous with the sport itself. 
Ultimatly neither got the upper hand, they are tied with 4 Titles each. But for the rest of the History we will say, that if one of them never competed the other would have 8 titles and not 4.